>> Melkey: And I'm actually going to get
out of that previous directory we have,
because here I would like us
to start the go project, okay?
So this is going to be us now working and
creating the go project again from
scratch, following this similar pattern,
or quote,
unquote style of the previous one.
But I'm not gonna just write a bunch of
stuff in main and delete and rewrite,
delete and rewrite.
We are actually going to be
building out the product structure.
So I just want to kind of emphasize
that all that beginning stuff
that we just did will help us create
the project as we move forward right now.
And there's also gonna be new stuff that
we didn't cover in the beginning section,
but that's gonna be expected,
especially when we spin up an HTTP server.
We didn't cover HTTP servers at all,
right?
We covered maybe underlying
data structures, but
now we're gonna kind of just utilize
those into what I hope to be
a more applicable side of writing go,
okay?
So let's start.
So go ahead and
make a new directory, mk directory,
I'm just gonna say,
Frontend Masters will do project.
I'm gonna cd into this project.
And for the go mod init,
I'm gonna leave it up to you.
If you want to the full implementation of,
let's say,
github.com/the author name/the project,
fem, and I'll just do Project.
Go ahead and do this, right?
If you wanna make it shorter,
it's gonna be easier.
I'm gonna go ahead and
do the full length here, okay?
So if I create this, now we have our new
go.mod, and then I'm gonna do touch,
oops, touch main.go
>> Melkey: Okay,
in our main.go file, let's quickly just
put our package main and then func main,
and then get our compiler
to stop yelling at us.
The first thing, and
I just alluded to this earlier,
is we're not gonna bog down our main.go.
You wanna keep it as slim and
as simple as possible.
Now, that's not a hard rule of thumb,
there's gonna be certain cases where you
just need to instantiate a bunch of things
you may not go, that's completely fine.
But your main.go should be just
the entry point to application.
And then you're other data structures
that house the rest of your app should be
responsible for other functionalities
that are the core implementation
of whatever you're building.
So in that, let's go ahead and make a new
directory in the root of our project now,
I'm gonna call this internal, all right?
And within internal,
we're gonna make a new folder called app.
In this folder, I'm gonna stop
referring to them as folders.
I'm gonna start referring
to these as packages, okay?
Within app,
let's make a new file called app.go.
Okay, here we'll make and
declare our new package app,
and this app is going to
be housing our application.
So when I say housing,
the first thing I want
us to start to think about is data, okay?
When he says housing, okay, data.
And then the second thing is,
how are we gonna handle data?.
And whenever you ask that question of
how you're gonna handle data in go,
the first question or answer you
should have is, do I need a struck?
Does this package need a struck, yes, no.
In our case, our app package,
the responsibility of this app package
is going to be having a bunch of
resources that we can use
throughout our application.
And because we're gonna
be passing this around,
a struck is a viable solution here.
So we're gonna do type, let's just call
it Application, it's gonna be a struct.
And the first thing I'm gonna
put is gonna be a Logger.
So let's just go ahead and
create a Logger.
We're gonna use the built-in
Logger library,
which you can use if you go up here.
Let's do import and let's just do "log".
And here it's going to be
a pointer to log.Logger.
>> Melkey: And with a shrug, I didn't
show this in the previous example,
I like constructors.
I like the theme and
I like the purpose of a constructor.
And I think for certain structs,
a constructor makes a lot of sense.
So here we're gonna create
our first constructor.
We're gonna do func capital
NewApplication, all right,
and this is gonna return two things.
It's gonna return a pointer to
application, and a potential error, okay?
And here we're gonna
instantiate our logger.
So here we do log.New, okay?
We're gonna have all of the message
from a logger go to our standard output.
So we're gonna use os.Stdout, okay?
If you have go pls setup,
you should get the built-in auto import.
If not, make sure that you are bringing
the OS package at the top.
The order does not matter between this and
the log import.
Okay, the second order is to be blank, so
don't really care about any of
the semantic styling of log.
But what we do wanna add to
our logger is timestamps.
So what we can do is log.ldate.
I'm gonna pipe this with log.ltime.
I mean, every time we use any of
the methods built into our logger, like
printing, failing, error printing, we'll
get the timestamp from our logger as well.
Next we're going to declare our app.
So this is gonna be
a reference to our application.
I'm gonna do logger like so, and
then we're gonna do return app and nil.
What is the logger doing?
We're going to use
the logger as opposed to
format print line across our application.
So this is gonna be
a more structured way for
us to understand what's
happening in our backend system.
And for us to properly diagnose
maybe error print statements or
just things that we need to kind of
dig deeper and use print debugging.
>> Melkey: Okay, so
a few things I wanna quickly mention here.
So one, we are returning a pointer
to application and an error type.
This is the first time we should be
seeing the error type in our code.
And you can see my return type,
I have app and nil.
So nil are valid error types, okay,
they satisfy the interface for an error.
So you can put nil,
that's gonna be good, okay?
As for the app itself, you can see here
I have the ampersand cuz I'm pointing to
the memory of an application.
If I remove this,
a compiler yells at us, right?
If you want to solve this,
you can just move the pointer that we're
responding with or
returning with, to be more exact.
But here, because we're gonna be
modifying our application and using it.
And I also typically strongly
recommend that if you know the data
structure of your app, I'd recommend
using a pointer to that struct.
So here we have our application, okay, and
right now it's simple functionality
is to create a new app for us.
Next, in internal,
I'm not gonna write anything here, but
to make a new package called routes.
And then within routes, we do routes.go
and all I'm gonna write here is package
routes, cuz if you don't,
your code's not gonna compile.
That's all we're gonna do for now, okay?
And then back in our func main,
we are going to do a couple
of exciting things.
So first, we're not gonna change any
of the signature of the func main cuz
we can't, but what we are going to do is
create and instantiate our app struct.
So here let's do an import, and
this is gonna be where we import something
from our package, our own project here.
If you need a reminder of what your
modules is called, the go.mod is kind of
the equivalent of the package.JSON for
those of us who are familiar with web dev.
Go.mod has the name of your module here.
It will also have the version of go that
was used to spin up, so the go mod init.
And as we bring in different imports
through our project, those direct and
indirect projects and
imports will be listed in the go.mod.
So here, I'm gonna go back to my main,
I'm gonna import the name of my module
against a Github melkeydev femProject.
And in here, I'm gonna route
it to internal/app, like so.
And if you wanna confirm
that it worked correctly,
you should be getting this error message,
imported but not used.
If it says it cannot find the import,
you may have some sort of mistake
going on between your module name.
Don't forget the internal part,
I do that sometimes.
Here we're gonna instantiate our app.
We're also gonna explicitly check for
the error,
even though we know at this time
that error is always gonna be no.
We're gonna do app error as the app name.
So app, I'm gonna do new application.
>> Melkey: Okay, here we'll say,
if err != nil.
We're going to PANIC.
So this is the first
introduction to PANIC.
Now, PANIC and
go is exactly how it sounds like,
it's gonna PANIC and
completely wipe and cloche app.
It's self-destruction,
it's going to exit the application
with a fatal error message.
We reserve PANIC in situations
where it should never occur.
And if it does, stuff has hit the fan and
we need to in our app deservedly
should turn off or break.
You don't use PANIC if there is
a foreseen potential for an error or
a controlled error statement,
because it will crash your application.
So in this case,
we should never see our app.
The kind of first step in our application,
we spin this up, error out.
If we do,
then we know we can continue our app,
we know if there's an error in
getting our application struck,
that the rest of the app is
gonna probably fault as well.
So we have this PANIC here on purpose.
It's a keyword, and it has some pretty
powerful use cases that we can use, okay?
Next thing I'm gonna use app.
I'm gonna use that logger property,
so .logger.
I'm just gonna do a print line,
and all I'm going to write is,
"we are running our app" like so.